# PHP SDK for Zitadel

This is the Zitadel PHP SDK, designed to provide a convenient and idiomatic
way to interact with the Zitadel APIs in PHP. The SDK provides a seamless
wrapping of the Zitadel API, making it easy to authenticate service users and
perform API operations.

The SDK enables efficient integration with the Zitadel API, allowing you to
manage resources and execute actions. However, it's important to note that
this SDK is tailored for service users and is not intended for user
authentication scenarios. It does not support authentication mechanisms
like OAuth2, OIDC, or SAML for client applications, including web, mobile,
or other environments. For these types of user authentication, you should
use other libraries that are designed for the specific platform and
authentication method.

**Disclaimer**: This SDK is not suitable for implementing user authentication.
It does not handle authentication for client applications using OAuth2, OIDC,
or SAML and should not be used for scenarios requiring such functionality.
For those use cases, consider using other solutions that are designed for
user authentication across various platforms like web, mobile, or other
client environments.

## Getting Started

### Sign up for Zitadel
To use this SDK, you need a Zitadel account. Sign up at the official
Zitadel website and obtain the necessary credentials to access the API.

### Minimum Requirements
Ensure you have PHP 7.4 or higher installed. You also need Composer to
install dependencies.

## Using the SDK

### Installation
Install the SDK by running one of the following commands:

```bash
composer require zitadel/client
```

### Authentication

The SDK supports three authentication methods:

1. Private Key JWT Authentication
2. Client Credentials Grant
3. Personal Access Tokens (PATs)

For most service user scenarios in Zitadel, private key JWT authentication
is the recommended choice due to its benefits in security, performance, and control.
However, client credentials authentication might be considered in specific
situations where simplicity and trust between servers are priorities.

For more details on these authentication methods, please refer
to the [Zitadel documentation on authenticating service users](https://zitadel.com/docs/guides/integrate/service-users/authenticate-service-users).


### Example

```php
<?php

use Zitadel\Client\Model\V2AddHumanUserRequest;
use Zitadel\Client\Model\V2SetHumanEmail;
use Zitadel\Client\Model\V2SetHumanProfile;
use Zitadel\Client\Zitadel;
use Zitadel\Client\ApiException;

$zitadel = new Zitadel('your-zitadel-base-url', 'your-valid-token');

try {
    $response = $zitadel->users->userServiceAddHumanUser(
        (new V2AddHumanUserRequest())
            ->setUsername('john.doe')
            ->setProfile((new V2SetHumanProfile())
                ->setGivenName('John')
                ->setFamilyName('Doe'))
            ->setEmail((new V2SetHumanEmail())
                ->setEmail('john@@doe.com'))
    );
    echo 'User created with ID: ' . $response->getUserId();
} catch (ApiException $e) {
    echo 'Error creating user: ' . $e->getMessage();
}
```

### Debugging
The SDK supports debug logging, which can be enabled for troubleshooting
and debugging purposes. You can enable debug logging by setting the `debug`
flag to `true` when initializing the `Zitadel` client, like this:

```php
$zitadel = new Zitadel('your-zitadel-base-url', 'your-valid-token', fn($config) => $config->setDebug(true));
```

When enabled, the SDK will log additional information, such as HTTP request
and response details, which can be useful for identifying issues in the
integration or troubleshooting unexpected behavior.

## Design and Dependencies

This SDK is designed to be lean and efficient, focusing on providing a
streamlined way to interact with the Zitadel API. It relies on Guzzle's
PSR-7 compliant HTTP transport for making requests, which ensures that
the SDK integrates well with other libraries and provides flexibility
in terms of request handling and error management.

## Versioning
This SDK follows [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). You can refer to
the releases for details on the changes between versions.

## Contributing
This repository is autogenerated. We do not accept direct contributions.
Instead, please open an issue for any bugs or feature requests.

## Reporting Issues

If you encounter any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please
open an issue in the [issue tracker](https://github.com/zitadel/client-php/issues).
When reporting an issue, please provide the following information to help
us address it more effectively:

- A detailed description of the problem or feature request
- Steps to reproduce the issue (if applicable)
- Any relevant error messages or logs
- Environment details (e.g., OS version, relevant configurations)

## Support
If you need help setting up or configuring the SDK (or anything
Zitadel), please head over to the [Zitadel Community on Discord](https://zitadel.com/chat).

There are many helpful people in our Discord community who are ready to
assist you.

Cloud and enterprise customers can additionally reach us privately via our
[support communication channels](https://zitadel.com/docs/legal/service-description/support-services).

## License
This SDK is distributed under the Apache 2.0 License.
